.\" dvsource-firewire-rtsp.1 written by Wouter Verhelst
.mso www.tmac
.TH DVSOURCE-FIREWIRE-RTSP 1 "2 March 2012"
.SH NAME
dvsource-firewire-rtsp \- FireWire (IEEE1394) video source for DVswitch, using RTSP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B dvsource-firewire-rtsp
.RB [ \-t " TALLY-SCRIPT " ] [ \-v ] [ \-c " CARD-NUMBER | DEVICE " ] [ --listen-host " HOST " ] [ --listen-port " PORT " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR creates a DV over RTSP stream for use with
dvswitch 0.9 or above. Whereas previous versions of dvswitch used a
protocol specific to dvswitch, version 0.9 introduces the ability to use
DV over RTSP sources, whereby the source is the server, rather than the
dvswitch instance. 
.LP
While the previous protocol is still supported for the time being,
in the future dvswitch will move to RTSP as its only supported protocol
for sources. For now, however, RTSP support is experimental.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR CARD-NUMBER | DEVICE
Specify the IEEE1394 card number of video device GUID to use. If not
specified, \fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR will use the first available
video device.
.LP
\fB--listen-host\fR HOST
.TP
\fB--listen-port\fR PORT
Specify the IP address and port number on which
\fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR is to listen for client connections. In the
absense of these options, the default is to on all interfaces on port
8554.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR TALLY-SCRIPT
Specify the tally script to run. When this option is absent,
\fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR will ignore tally messages. If specified,
\fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR will
.BR
popen (3)
.RB
the specified script, and send it messages of the form
.RS
TALLY: on
.RE
or
.RS
TALLY: off
.RE
to specify whether the tally light should be on or off.
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Be verbose. With this, \fBdvsource-firewire-rtsp\fR will output varous
bits of information, such as the RTSP URL to use, or when clients
connect or disconnect. Highly recommended during testing.
.SH AUTHOR
Ben Hutchings.
.SH SEE ALSO
/usr/share/doc/dvswitch/README
