.\" dvsource-alien.1 written by Jürgen Weigert <jw@opensuse.org>
.TH DVSOURCE-ALIEN 1 "06 July 2013"
.SH NAME
dvsource-alien \- A source for DVswitch connecting v4l2 devices or webstreams.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B dvsource-alien
.RI "[\fB-h\fP " HOST  "] [\fB-p\fP "  PORT ]
.RI "[\fB--geometry\fP " 640  [ "\fBx\fP480" "]] [\fB--crop\fP " 0\fB:\fP0\fB:\fP0\fB:\fP0 "] [\fB--rate\fP " 48000 "] [\fB--audiodev\fP " hw:0 ]
.RI [ /dev/video0 ]
.HP
.B dvsource-alien
.R -
.HP
.B dvsource-alien
.R http://192.168.178.27:8080/video

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Stream a non-DV source to the mixer.  By default this opens /dev/video0 as
input device. You can explicitly name a video4linux devices, or use it in a 
pipeline with - or pull webcam videos by specfying an URL. 

The correct framerate and videoformat is generated internally, unlike 
dvsource-command or dvsource-v4l2, which both expect the surrounding pipeline
(or connected device) to produce the correct rate and format.

With webcams or stdin, only motion jpeg is currently supported.
The android app 'IP Webcam' can be connected so that exhibits can be examined
with a handheld and wireless device.

For easy checking if the input is alive, an ascii-art line on stderr may server
as a minimalistic preview. 

.SH OPTIONS
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-host=\fIHOST\fR
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port=\fIPORT\fR
.RS
Specify the network address on which DVswitch is listening.  The host
address may be specified by name or as an IPv4 or IPv6 literal.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-crop=\fILEFT\fB:\fIRIGHT\fB:\fITOP\fB:\fIBOTTOM\fR
.RS
Specify crop margins for the source image. This is useful to workaround the
onscreen display of your video camera, or visible artefacts at the borders.  
Default: -c 0:0:0:0
.RE
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-geometry=\fIWIDTH\fR[\fBx\fIHEIGHT\fR]
.RS
Specify the requested video resolution for v4l.
This will be scaled to fit into the pal-dv format. Only with v4l devices.
If you only specify a WIDTH, a matching HEIGHT for 4:3 format is attempted.
Some v4l drivers may silently ignore the requested geometry.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet"
.RS
Disable ascii-art preview. Default: One line from the middle of
the video is rendered as ascii art gray ramp to stderr.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-audio=\fIAUDIO_DEV\fR
.RS
Open an audio device just like dvsource-alsa would do. See there for details.
A typical usb-webcam comes as a v4l2 device (e.g. /dev/video0) and a separate
alsa audio device (e.g. hw:1, aka /dev/snd/pcmC1D0c). Default: No
audio, digital silence.
Audio input is experimental.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rate=\fIAUDIO_RATE\fR
.RS
Supported values are 48000,32000.  Default 48000.
The audio track is digital silence, unless -a is also specified.
Audio input is experimental.
.RE
.SH FILES
.B /etc/dvswitchrc
The following keywords are parsed from the init file:
MIXER_HOST, MIXER_PORT, VIDEO_GEOMETRY, CROP_MARGIN, AUDIO_DEVICE
.SH BUGS
As with version 0.8 optional audio input is not fully tested. It may segfault on you.
The compile time symbol WITH_AUDIO defaults to 0.
.SH AUTHOR
Juergen Weigert <jw@opensuse.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
https://en.opensuse.org/Dvsource-alien_howto

/usr/share/doc/dvswitch/README


